Using elements produced by SignStrip macros (or any similar strips of
paper), you can tape up "s-packets" which act like single-content
envelopes that are much easier to conceal.  These are very useful for
in-place riddle trails and secret passageway systems.

The concept and name "s-packet" come from Reality Check III: Dinner at
the Schloss Himmelbrand, which used s-packets for secret passageways.
The "s" stands for both "secret" and "strip."

Use glossy scotch tape.  This file uses ascii art; dashes and lines
are paper edges and dots are tape edges.  For convention, the text and
art depicts an s-packet that closes with the pull-tab on the right.

To tape an s-packet to a wall, start with the strip content-side-up:

   _____________________________________________________________
  |                                                             |
  |                                                             |
  |           content content content content content           |
  |                                                             |
  |_____________________________________________________________|

Tape down the right half of the strip, starting at the middle and
extending well past the right end.  Use at least two pieces of tape
(more if the strip is sufficiently tall); the tape should totally
cover the right half and extend past the top, bottom, and right edges,
creating a smooth, clean surface:

                                 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                 .                                         .
   _____________________________________________________________           .
  |                              .                              |          .
  |                              .                              |          .
  |           content content con.ent content content           |          .
  |                              .                              |          .
  |_____________________________________________________________|          .
                                 .                                         .
                                 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Fold the untaped half on top to the right.  The label on the outside
half should be visible.

Prepare a new piece of tape sufficiently longer than the folded strip.
Fold under the right end to create a pull-tab that can be gripped.

Tape down the top with the pull-tab to the right.  The tape should
extend past both ends of the folded paper.  The pull-tab should not go
past the right edge of the taped surface underneath:

                                 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                                 .                                         .
                      . . . . . . ______________________________ . . ...   .
                      .          |                              |    ...   .
                      .          |                              |    ...   .
                      .          |            label             |    ...   .
                      .          |                              |    ...   .
                      . . . . . .|______________________________|. . ...   .
                                 .                                         .
                                 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

When closed, the right end of the top tape should be stuck to the
glossy surface of the tape beneath.

You open an s-packet by gently pulling on the tab to read the
contents, and you close it by folding the strip back down and
resticking the tab.  If taped properly, an s-packet can stay up and be
repeatedly opened and closed over the course of a long game.  Make
sure players know to open s-packets gently and to close them
carefully.
